In this video, we're going to download and install Notepad++ for Windows.
Open up your browser, I'm using Google Chrome, and go to "notepad-plus-plus.org".
Once the Notepad++ website loads, on the left hand side go to the download option.
Once the download page loads, click on the big green "DOWNLOAD" button. This will download the Windows installer,
that will walk us through the rest of the process. Once the installer has finished downloading, within Chrome, we can click on open,
which will run the installer in place. When windows prompts you about whether or not you want to really install this program. Click on "Yes".
That will launch the installer for Notepad++. The first screen is to choose your language. I'm going to keep it on English and hit "OK".
On the first screen of the setup, I'm just going to advance on with "Next". On the license agreement page,
you can scroll through and make sure you agree with the license. Once you've read through this, click on "I agree"
On the "Choose Install Location Page" I'm going to leave it at the default location and click "Next".
On the first "Choose Components" page, I'm going to keep all the defaults and advance with the "Next" button.
On the second "Choose Components" page, I do want the installer to create a shortcut on my Desktop, so I will check that option.
Now, let's click the install button to install Notepad++.
On the final page, after the installation process, un-check "Run Notepad++"; we're going to run Notepad++ from our desktop in a moment.
Now, click on the "Finish" button. Great, now let's close our browser and verify that we have our Notepad++ icon on our desktop,
which we do. Double-click that icon to verify that Notepad++ can launch.
Now that we've confirmed that we've successfully installed Notepad++, let's close the program.
We're going to configure Notepad++ to run from within our command environment.
I'm going to be demonstrating this with Git Bash, but this will work equally as well with the Windows command prompt or PowerShell.
To demonstrate what I mean, I'm going to fire up Git Bash, and try executing Notepad++ from the command line.
So type "notepad++", then press enter. In this case Git Bash tells us "command not found".
Well, we can fix that. Let's exit out of our command environment, I'm going to type "exit" and that closes Git Bash.
The first step is to simply find where Notepad++ is installed. To do that, I'm going to go to file explorer.
File explorer may actually be named something else on your version of Windows; in some case, it's named Windows explorer.
Once file Explorer has loaded, expand out "This PC", then go to the C-drive, which is under local disk.
Notepad++ is a 32 bit piece of software, which, running in a 64 bit version of Windows, will be under "Program Files (x86)".
Expand that out, and we should find Notepad++ here. So click on that folder, and look for the Notepad++ application.
Great, we have found the location where Notepad++ is installed.
Now, go up to the address bar and click on it. This will give us the file path location where Notepad++ is installed.
Copy this location, I'm going to use control+c, or you can right click and select copy.
Great, with file explorer still open, I'm going to scroll back up to "This PC", and right click on "This PC".
From the popup menu go to "Properties". Once the "System" control pannel window opens,
click on "Advanced system settings". The "System Properties" will open onto the "Advanced" tab.
Go to the bottom of the advanced tab, and click on "Environment Variables...".
We need to modify the path environment variable under "System Variables".
So under system variables scroll down until you find the "Path" variable". Select it, and click on "Edit...".
In the field for "Variable value:", go to the end of this value. The quick way to do this is to hit the End key.
We're going to add another path value at the end of this string. To separate paths, we're going to use a semicolon.
After that, paste in the path location of Notepad++ that we copied in the steps before. Control+v.
Double check the value, and then click on "OK". Once we return to the "Environment Variables" dialogue click "OK".
Back at the system properties Dialogue, click "OK". At this point we can close the "System" window.
And it's also safe to close file explorer. Great, now that we've done that, let's test it out.
I'm going to return to Git Bash. And, like before, type notepad++, and then press enter. Notepad++ should launch.
Now that we're done with that, we can close Notepad++ and Git Bash.